urn:contentItem:6B5K-8G31-JBG1-8007-00000-00FVCBankcorp, Inc. Announces 2023
Earnings2024-01-23T00:00:00Z2025-06-11T07:25:33ZLexisNexisFVCBankcorp, Inc.
Announces 2023 EarningsFAIRFAX, Va.FVCBankcorp, Inc. (NASDAQ: FVCB) (the
"Company") today reported its financial results for the fourth quarter and full
year of 2023.Fourth Quarter Selected Financial Highlights•Strong Credit Quality.
Nonperforming loans totaled $1.8 million at December 31, 2023, or 0.08% of total
assets, a decrease of $2.7 million, or 59%, from the prior year ended December
31, 2022. Net charge-offs of $49 thousand were recorded during the fourth
quarter of 2023, or 0.01% of average total loans.•Prudent Balance Sheet
Repositioning. During the fourth quarter of 2023, the Company sold a portion of
its investment portfolio totaling $61.4 million of book value available-for-sale
securities with a weighted average book yield of 1.54% and a projected earn-back
of less than three years. This repositioning resulted in an after-tax loss of
$8.5 million.•Low Uninsured Deposit Metrics Compared to Total Deposits. As of
December 31, 2023, estimated uninsured deposits improved to 31.1% of total
deposits from 39.7% at December 31, 2022, when excluding collateralized
deposits. The Company has sufficient capital and liquidity resources to satisfy
these obligations.•Diverse Sources of Available Liquidity. At December 31, 2023,
the Company's liquidity position, which includes cash totaling $60.5 million,
unencumbered investment securities of $162.1 million, and available unsecured
and secured borrowing capacity totaling $705.1 million, was significantly in
excess of its estimated uninsured deposits (excluding collateralized deposits)
totaling $574.6 million, or 31.1% of total deposits.•Strong, Well Capitalized
Balance Sheet. All of FVCbank's (the "Bank") regulatory capital components and
ratios are well in excess of thresholds required to be considered "well
capitalized", with total risk-based capital to risk-weighted assets of 13.83% at
December 31, 2023. The tangible common equity ("TCE") to total assets ("TA")
ratio for the Bank increased to 10.12% at December 31, 2023, from 8.86% at
December 31, 2022. The Bank's investment securities are classified as available-
for-sale, and therefore the decrease in market value of these securities is
fully reflected in the TCE/TA ratio.As a result of the above mentioned
repositioning, the Company recorded a net loss of $5.1 million, or $0.28 diluted
loss per share, for the quarter ended December 31, 2023, compared to net income
of $4.9 million, or $0.27 diluted earnings per share for the quarter ended
December 31, 2022.For the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company reported net
income of $3.8 million, or $0.21 diluted earnings per share, compared to net
income of $25.0 million, or $1.35 diluted earnings per share for the year ended
December 31, 2022. The year ended December 31, 2023 results include after-tax
losses of $12.2 million for first quarter 2023 and fourth quarter 2023
securities sale. In addition, the Company reduced its future occupancy expense
through a reduction in office space. The Company wrote-off two leases totaling
$273,000 during the fourth quarter of 2023 to reduce excess office space and to
consolidate two branch locations in Montgomery County, Maryland. Lastly, the
Company reduced staffing which resulted in severance costs of $63,000 during the
fourth quarter of 2023 and $184,000 for the year ended December 31, 2023. These
initiatives reduce operating expenses in 2024 by over $1.0 million.Commercial
bank operating earnings, which exclude losses on the above-noted securities
sales, office space reduction costs, severance costs, and 2022 merger-related
expenses, all net of tax, for the three months ended December 31, 2023 and
September 30, 2023 were $3.8 million and $4.0 million, respectively, a decrease
of $280 thousand. Diluted commercial bank operating earnings per share for the
three months ended December 31, 2023 and September 30, 2023 were $0.21 and
$0.22, respectively. For the linked quarter ended September 30, 2023, commercial
bank operating earnings included after-tax reversal of provision for credit
losses totaling $569 thousand. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022,
commercial bank operating earnings were $16.3 million and $25.1 million,
respectively. Diluted commercial bank operating earnings per share for the year
ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 were $0.90 and $1.36, respectively.For the
three months ended December 31, 2023 and September 30, 2023, pre-tax pre-
provision operating income (which also excludes losses on securities sales,
office space reduction costs and severance costs) was $4.7 million and $4.5
million, respectively, an increase of $206 thousand.The Company considers
commercial bank operating earnings and pre-tax pre-provision operating income
useful comparative financial measures of the Company's operating performance
over multiple periods. Both commercial bank operating earnings and pre-tax pre-
provision operating income are determined by methods other than in accordance
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). A reconciliation of
non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable financial measure in
accordance with GAAP can be found in the tables below.Management CommentsDavid
W. Pijor, Esq., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, said:"2023
was a challenging year for financial institutions, including FVCbank. Our
commitment to sound strategic banking and serving our clients are and will
always be our top priorities. We successfully implemented a new digital banking
platform in early 2023, enhancing our client offerings and improving operating
efficiencies. We continue to lend to businesses in our market area through our
disciplined credit culture as evidenced by our historically low credit losses.
The balance sheet repositionings and our focus on our operating structure will
improve profitability and efficiencies going into 2024. We are well positioned
to create shareholder value and will remain focused on client service, quality
core growth, expense discipline, and strategic balance sheet
management."Statement of ConditionTotal assets were $2.19 billion at December
31, 2023 and $2.34 billion at December 31, 2022, a decrease of $153.7 million,
or 7%. This decrease was a result of the Company's strategic balance sheet
management which was focused on repositioning the balance sheet through two
investment securities restructurings and reducing its reliance on wholesale
funding to limit funding costs.Loans receivable, net of deferred fees, were
$1.83 billion at December 31, 2023 and $1.84 billion at December 31, 2022, a
decrease of $11.9 million, or 0.6%. Compared to September 30, 2023, loans
receivable, net of deferred fees, decreased $20.9 million, or 1%, from $1.85
billion. During the fourth quarter of 2023, new commercial loan originations
totaled $15.4 million with a weighted average rate of 8.32% and repayments of
loans totaled $52.2 million with a weighted average rate of 7.29%. Commercial
line activity, which has a weighted average rate 8.69%, increased $26.9 million
during the fourth quarter of 2023. Commercial construction loans paid down $6.6
million during the fourth quarter of 2023. The Company's warehouse line with
Atlantic Coast Mortgage, LLC ("ACM") decreased $4.4 million during the fourth
quarter of 2023. During the first three weeks of January 2024, the Company
originated and funded $29.4 million in new commercial loans that were expected
to close prior to year-end.Investment securities were $171.9 million at December
31, 2023 and $278.3 million at December 31, 2022, a decrease of $106.5 million,
or 38%. Investment securities decreased $44.6 million during the quarter ended
December 31, 2023, primarily as a result of a second balance sheet restructuring
whereby the Company sold $61.4 million in book value available-for-sale
securities with a weighted average book yield of 1.54%. Offsetting this
quarterly decrease was an improvement in the market value of the investment
securities portfolio totaling $21.8 million. The Company previously sold $40.3
million in book value available-for-sale securities during February 2023 to de-
leverage its balance sheet and invest funds in higher yielding assets.Total
deposits were $1.85 billion at December 31, 2023 and $1.83 billion at December
31, 2022, an increase of $15.1 million, or 1%. Noninterest-bearing deposits were
$396.7 million at December 31, 2023, or 21.5% of total deposits. At December 31,
2023, core deposits, which exclude wholesale deposits, increased $17.9 million
from December 31, 2022, or 1%. As a member of the IntraFi Network, the Bank
offers products to its customers who seek to maximize FDIC insurance protection
("reciprocal deposits"). At December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, reciprocal
deposits totaled $254.1 million and $117.6 million, respectively, and are
considered part of the Company's core deposit base. Time deposits (which exclude
wholesale deposits) increased $45.9 million, or 18%, to $306.3 million at
December 31, 2023 from December 31, 2022, and were 19% of core deposits at
December 31, 2023, representing new and existing customer deposits as customers
were looking to fix interest rates on their deposit balances.The Company has had
consistent core deposit inflows over the last several quarters, including the
fourth quarter of 2023, with new non-time deposit accounts totaling $116.5
million (which includes $8.3 million in new noninterest-bearing deposits)
compared to $200 million (which includes $7.6 million in noninterest-bearing
deposits) for the third quarter of 2023. Title and escrow-related deposits
decreased $69.1 million from September 30, 2023 to December 31, 2023 which was
primarily attributable to a few large commercial transactions that settled prior
to year-end. Deposits from municipalities decreased $20.6 million during the
fourth quarter of 2023 due to time deposit maturities and the repricing of these
collateralized deposits were at premium interest rates. The Company maintains a
growing deposit pipeline headed into the first quarter of 2024.Total wholesale
funding (which includes wholesale deposits and advances from the Federal Home
Loan Bank of Atlanta ("FHLB") decreased $182.7 million, or 36%, during 2023.
Wholesale funding, which totaled $330.3 million at December 31, 2023, carried a
weighted average rate of 3.62% including $250 million in pay-fixed/receive-
floating interest rate swaps at an average rate of 3.25%. Wholesale deposits
decreased $2.7 million to $245.3 million during 2023 and FHLB advances decreased
$180.0 million during 2023.Shareholders' equity at December 31, 2023 was $217.1
million, an increase of $14.7 million, or 7%, from December 31, 2022. Earnings
for the year ended December 31, 2023 contributed $3.8 million to the increase in
shareholders' equity. As a result of the Company's adoption of Accounting
Standards Update 2016-13 ("CECL") on January 1, 2023, retained earnings
decreased $2.8 million. In addition, during the first six months of 2023, the
Company repurchased 115,750 of its common shares at an average price of $12.51
(including commissions) in accordance with its approved share repurchase
program, reducing shareholders' equity $1.4 million during 2023. Accumulated
other comprehensive loss decreased $12.4 million, which was related to the
improvement in other comprehensive income associated with the Company's
investment portfolio and losses recorded from the sale of investment securities
during 2023.Book value per share at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 was
$12.19 and $11.58, respectively. Tangible book value per share (a non-GAAP
financial measure which is defined in the tables below) at December 31, 2023 and
December 31, 2022 was $11.77 and $11.14, respectively. Tangible book value per
share, excluding accumulated other comprehensive loss (a non-GAAP financial
measure which is defined in the tables below), at December 31, 2023 and December
31, 2022 was $13.12 and $13.23, respectively.The Bank is well-capitalized at
December 31, 2023, with total risk-based capital of 13.83%, common equity tier 1
risk-based capital of 12.80%, and tier 1 leverage ratio of 10.77%.Asset
QualityThe Company adopted CECL on January 1, 2023 in accordance with the
required implementation date, and recorded the impact of the adoption to
retained earnings, net of deferred income taxes, as required by the accounting
standard. Note that prior to the adoption of CECL, the Company utilized an
incurred loss model to derive its best estimate of the allowance for credit
losses. Reserves for credit losses increased $3.7 million and consisted of
increases to the allowance for credit losses on loans as well as the Company's
reserve for unfunded commitments (referred to in combination herein as "ACL").
For the fourth quarter of 2023 and year ended December 31, 2023, subsequent to
the aforementioned adoption, the Company recorded no provision for credit losses
and $132 thousand, respectively, compared to a provision of $729 thousand for
the three months ended December 31, 2022 and a provision of $2.6 million for the
year ended December 31, 2022. The ACL to total loans, net of fees, was 1.06% at
December 31, 2023, compared to 0.87% at December 31, 2022.The Company has
maintained disciplined credit guidelines during the rising interest rate
environment. The Company proactively monitors the impact of rising interest
rates on its adjustable loans as the industry navigates through this economic
cycle of increased inflation and higher interest rates. Certain credit quality
metrics improved during 2023 as nonperforming loans and loans 90 days or more
past due at December 31, 2023 totaled $1.8 million, or 0.08% of total assets,
compared to $4.5 million, or 0.19%, of total assets at December 31, 2022.
Watchlist credits increased to $28.8 million at December 31, 2023, an increase
of $14.3 million from December 31, 2022, as the Company proactivity manages the
credit quality of its loan portfolio, including reducing its commercial real
estate concentrations, which has resulted in limited credit losses over its
history. The Company had no other real estate owned.The Company recorded net
charge-offs of $49 thousand during the fourth quarter of 2023 and $375 thousand
for the year ended December 31, 2023. The ACL (which includes the reserve for
unfunded commitments) at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, was $19.5
million and $16.0 million, respectively. ACL coverage to nonperforming loans
increased to 1065% at December 31, 2023, compared to 357% at December 31, 2022
as a result of the Company's improved credit quality and adoption of
CECL.Commercial real estate and construction loans totaled $1.24 billion, or 68%
of total loans, net of fees, at December 31, 2023. The commercial real estate
portfolio, including construction loans, is diversified by asset type and
geographic concentration. The Company manages this portion of the portfolio in a
disciplined manner, and has comprehensive policies to monitor, measure and
mitigate its loan concentrations within this portfolio segment, including
rigorous credit approval, monitoring and administrative practices. Included in
commercial real estate are loans secured by office buildings totaling $92.9
million, or 5% of total loans, and retail shopping centers totaling $264.0
million, or 14% of total loans, at December 31, 2023. Multi-family commercial
properties totaled $178.6 million, or 10% of total loans, at December 31, 2023.
The following table provides further stratification of these and additional
asset classes at December 31, 2023 (dollars in thousands).Owner Occupied
Commercial Real EstateNon-Owner Occupied Commercial Real EstateConstructionAsset
ClassAverage Loan-to- Value (1)Number of Total LoansBank Owned Principal
(2)Average Loan-to- Value (1)Number of Total LoansBank Owned Principal (2)Top 3
Geographic ConcentrationNumber of Total LoansBank Owned Principal (2)Total Bank
Owned Principal (2)% of Total LoansOffice, Class A70%6$7,55847%4$3,776Counties
of Fairfax and Loudoun, Virginia and Montgomery County,
Maryland0$-$11,334Office, Class B46%3513,75147%3161,323--75,074Office, Class
C52%73,79341%81,95317806,526Subtotal48$25,10243$67,0521$780$92,9345%Retail-
Neighborhood/Community Shop-$-44%31$84,627Prince George's County, Maryland,
Fairfax County, Virginia and Washington, D.C.2$10,944$95,571Retail-
Restaurant57%98,18345%1626,931--35,114Retail- Single Tenant59%52,00142%2036,255
--38,256Retail- Anchored, Other71%12,04653%1241,572--43,618Retail- Grocery-ancho
red0-46%850,15411,26451,418Subtotal15$12,23087$239,5394$12,208$263,97714%Multi-
family, Class A (Market)-$-27%1$-Washington, D.C., Baltimore City, Maryland and
Arlington County, Virginia1$729$729Multi-family, Class B (Market)--63%2178,559--
78,559Multi-family, Class C (Market)--57%5771,90226,81678,718Multi-Family-
Affordable Housing--53%1016,52414,07520,599Subtotal-$-
89$166,9854$11,620$178,60510%Industrial52%43$70,26750%38$128,238Prince William
County, Virginia, Fairfax County, Virginia and Howard County,
Maryland1$269$198,774Warehouse52%1418,76133%1011,557--30,318Flex51%1518,72754%14
56,5312-75,258Subtotal72$107,75562$196,3263$269304,35017%Hotels-$-
43%9$52,5881$6,41058,9983%Mixed Use47%10$6,17461%37$68,4890$-74,6634%Other
(including net deferred costs)$61,628$87,765$116,711$266,10415%Total commercial
real estate and construction loans, net of fees, at December 31,
2023$212,889$878,744$147,998$1,239,63168%(1) Loan-to-value is determined at
origination date against current bank-owned principal.(2) Bank-owned principal
is not adjusted for deferred fees and costs.(3) Minimum debt service coverage
policy is 1.30x for Owner Occupied and 1.25x for Non-Owner Occupied at
origination.The loans shown in the above table exhibit strong credit quality,
reflecting only one classified delinquency at December 31, 2023 which totaled
$851 thousand with a specific reserve of $187 thousand. During its assessment of
the allowance for credit losses, the Company addressed the credit risks
associated with these portfolio segments and believes that as a result of its
conservative underwriting discipline at loan origination and its ongoing loan
monitoring procedures, the Company has appropriately reserved for possible
credit concerns in the event of a downturn in economic activity.Minority
Investment in Mortgage Banking OperationIn August 2021, the Company acquired a
membership interest in ACM to diversify its loan portfolio while providing
competitive residential mortgage products to its customers and to generate
additional revenue. The Company's investment in ACM is reflected as a
nonconsolidated minority investment, and as such, the Company's income generated
from the investment is included in non-interest income. For the fourth quarter
of 2023, the Company reported a pre-tax loss of $1.3 million compared to a pre-
tax loss of $1.4 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2022 related to its
investment in ACM. For the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, pre-tax losses
attributable to its investment in ACM totaled $2.8 million and $659 thousand,
respectively. ACM management is continuing to evaluate and look for
opportunities to further reduce spend and increase revenue where possible.Income
StatementThe Company recorded a net loss of $5.1 million for the three months
ended December 31, 2023, compared to net income of $4.9 million for the same
period of 2022. The net loss for the fourth quarter of 2023 includes the
Company's portion of losses from its membership interest in ACM, which was $1.3
million pre-tax, compared to a pre-tax loss of $1.4 million for the quarter
ended December 31, 2022, in addition to losses from securities sales during the
fourth quarter of 2023 totaling $11.0 million. Excluding securities sales,
office reduction costs and severance costs, bank operating earnings (non-GAAP)
totaled $3.8 million net of taxes for the fourth quarter of 2023.Interest income
on loans increased $3.3 million, or 15%, for the three months ended December 31,
2023, compared to the same period of 2022. Compared to the linked quarter,
interest income on loans decreased $494 thousand, or 2%, for the three months
ended December 31, 2023, primarily as a result of a decrease in average loans.
The increase in interest income for the three months ended December 31, 2023,
compared to the year ago quarter was primarily related to an increase in loan
yields, which increased 51 basis points, and the volume of average loans, which
increased $80.2 million. On a linked quarter basis, the yield on average loans
receivable increased by 2 basis points to 5.42%.At December 31, 2023,
approximately $308 million, or 21%, of the Company's commercial loan portfolio
is expected to reprice during 2024, an additional 19% will reprice within 24-36
months, and 29% will reprice within the next three to five years. The repricing
of the commercial loan portfolio will improve loan yields in future
periods.Interest expense on deposits increased $6.9 million for the three months
ended December 31, 2023, compared to the same period of 2022, and decreased $1.0
million compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023, reflecting the
impact of the Company's decreased reliance on wholesale deposits compared to the
previous quarter. The cost of deposits for the fourth quarter of 2023 was 2.78%
compared to 2.71% for the third quarter of 2023, an increase of 7 basis points,
and an increase of 149 basis points from 1.29% for the year-ago fourth
quarter.Net interest income totaled $12.7 million for the quarter ended December
31, 2023, a decrease of $676 thousand, or 5%, compared to the third quarter of
2023, and a decrease of $3.2 million, or 20%, compared to the year ago quarter.
Compared to the year ago quarter ended December 31, 2022, the decrease in net
interest income for the fourth quarter of 2023 is primarily due to an increase
in funding costs, which have increased precipitously as a result of Federal
Reserve monetary policy coupled with the need to meet intense competition from
market area banks, brokerages and the U.S. Treasury.The Company's net interest
margin decreased less than 1% to 2.37% for the quarter ended December 31, 2023
compared to 2.39% for the linked quarter ended September 30, 2023 and decreased
from 2.96% for the year ago quarter ended December 31, 2022. The Company
continues to consider possible balance sheet strategies to improve net interest
margin in future periods. The Company's net interest margin for the year ended
December 31, 2023 and 2022 was 2.49% and 3.19%, respectively.The Company's
cycle-to-date deposit beta (calculated comparing the change in deposit interest
rates from March 31, 2022 to December 31, 2023 including noninterest-bearing
deposits and excluding wholesale deposits) is approximately 42% over the past
cycle since the Federal Reserve began increasing short-term interest rates.Below
is a table illustrating the Company's quarterly loan and deposit betas from the
second quarter of 2022 through the fourth quarter of 2023.Loan & Deposit Betas
(vs. Fed Funds Effective)3Q224Q221Q232Q233Q234Q23Cycle-to-Date (1)Fed Funds
Effective (average)2.19%3.65%4.52%4.99%5.26%5.33%Deposit CostsInterest Bearing
Deposits - excluding wholesale0.88%1.65%2.39%2.88%3.32%3.46%Wholesale
Deposits0.88%2.38%3.56%3.89%3.86%3.91%Total
Deposits0.64%1.29%1.97%2.40%2.74%2.78%Total Deposits - excluding
wholesale0.63%1.20%1.71%2.07%2.48%2.62%Quarterly BetaInterest Bearing
Deposits20%53%86%104%163%200%55%Wholesale Deposits64%103%137%70%-11%71%65%Total
Deposits16%44%79%91%126%57%45%Total Deposits - excluding
wholesale15%39%59%76%152%200%42%Loan YieldsLoans (excluding net
accretion)4.41%4.75%4.91%5.15%5.27%5.31%As
reported4.64%4.91%5.11%5.35%5.40%5.42%Quarterly BetaLoans (excluding net
accretion)18%23%18%51%46%47%25%(1) Cycle-to-date reflects changes since first
quarter of 2022 and incorporates the increases in the average Fed Funds
effective rate.The Company recorded noninterest income as a loss of $9.9 million
for the quarter ended December 31, 2023 compared to income of $225 thousand for
the linked quarter ended September 30, 2023 and a loss of $10 thousand for the
quarter ended December 31, 2022. The loss associated with the Company's
investment in ACM was $1.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2023,
compared to a loss of $650 thousand for the linked quarter ended September 30,
2023 and a loss of $1.4 million for the year ago quarter ended December 31,
2022. The losses recorded for ACM for the fourth quarter and year ended December
31, 2023 were offset by income recorded from other holding company investments
totaling $1.6 million.Fee income from loans was $35 thousand for the quarter
ended December 31, 2023, compared to $74 thousand for the fourth quarter of
2022. Service charges on deposit accounts and other fee income totaled $385
thousand for the fourth quarter of 2023, an increase of $38 thousand from the
year ago quarter. Income from bank-owned life insurance increased $29 thousand
to $385 thousand for the three months ended December 31, 2023, compared to $356
thousand for the same period of 2022.For the year ended December 31, 2023, the
Company recorded noninterest income as a loss of $13.4 million, which was
primarily associated with its securities sales transactions executed during the
first and fourth quarters of 2023, compared to noninterest income of $2.8
million for the comparable period of 2022. During 2023, the Company recorded a
loss of $15.6 million related to its sales of available-for-sale investment
securities as part of the Company's balance sheet repositioning strategy. The
loss associated with the Company's investment in ACM was $2.7 million for the
twelve months ended December 31, 2023, compared to a loss of $659 thousand for
the twelve months ended December 31, 2022.Noninterest expense totaled $9.4
million for the quarter ended December 31, 2023 compared to $9.2 million for the
same three-month period of 2022, an increase of $200 thousand, or 2%. On a
linked quarter basis, noninterest expense increased $354 thousand, or 4%, from
$9.0 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2023. The increase for the
fourth quarter of 2023 was primarily related to office space reduction costs of
$273 thousand and severance costs of $63 thousand as the Company continues to
evaluate its overhead expenses. Salaries and benefits expense remained at $5.3
million for each of the quarters ended December 31, 2023 and September 30, 2023,
and was $5.2 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2022. The maintenance of
salaries and benefits expense at this level is a result of the Company's
continued expense management including process improvement through the use of
technology.Internet banking and software expense increased $226 thousand to $701
thousand for the fourth quarter of 2023 compared to the quarter ended December
31, 2022, primarily as a result of the implementation of enhanced customer
software solutions. Other operating expenses totaled $1.2 million for each of
the third and fourth quarters of 2023 compared to $1.4 million for the fourth
quarter of 2022. The Company continues to identify and assess opportunities to
reduce operating expenses including analysis of its branch and office
locations.For the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, noninterest
expense was $36.7 million and $34.5 million, respectively, an increase of $2.2
million, or 6%, primarily as a result of the aforementioned increases in
internet banking and software expense and state franchise taxes.The Company
recorded a benefit for income taxes of $1.5 million for the three months ended
December 31, 2023, compared to a provision for income taxes of $1.0 million for
the same period in 2022. For the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022,
provision for income tax expense was $410 thousand and $6.0 million,
respectively.About FVCBankcorp, Inc.FVCBankcorp, Inc. is the holding company for
FVCbank, a wholly-owned subsidiary that commenced operations in November 2007.
FVCbank is a $2.19 billion asset-sized Virginia-chartered community bank serving
the banking needs of commercial businesses, nonprofit organizations,
professional service entities, their owners and employees located in the greater
Baltimore and Washington, D.C. metropolitan areas. FVCbank is based in Fairfax,
Virginia, and has 9 full-service offices in Arlington, Fairfax, Manassas, Reston
and Springfield, Virginia, Washington, D.C., and Baltimore, Bethesda, and
Rockville, Maryland.For more information about the Company, please visit the
Investor Relations page of FVCBankcorp, Inc.'s website, www.fvcbank.com
.Cautionary Note About Forward-Looking StatementsThis press release may contain
statements relating to future events or future results of the Company that are
considered "forward-looking statements" under the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements represent plans, estimates,
objectives, goals, guidelines, expectations, intentions, projections and
statements of our beliefs concerning future events, business plans, objectives,
expected operating results and the assumptions upon which those statements are
based. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement
that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or
achievements, and are typically identified with words such as "may," "could,"
"should," "will," "would," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "aim,"
"intend," "plan," or words or phases of similar meaning. We caution that the
forward-looking statements are based largely on our expectations and are subject
to a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties that are subject to
change based on factors which are, in many instances, beyond our control. Actual
results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those
contemplated, expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. The
following factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ
materially from that expressed in such forward-looking statements: general
business and economic conditions, including higher inflation and its impacts,
nationally or in the markets that the Company serves could adversely affect,
among other things, real estate valuations, unemployment levels, the ability of
businesses to remain viable, consumer and business confidence and consumer and
business spending, which could lead to decreases in demand for loans, deposits,
and other financial services that the Company provides and increases in loan
delinquencies and defaults; the risk of changes in interest rates on levels,
composition and costs of deposits, loan demand, and the values and liquidity of
loan collateral, securities, and interest sensitive assets and liabilities;
changes in the Company's liquidity requirements could be adversely affected by
changes in its assets and liabilities; changes in the assumptions underlying the
establishment of reserves for possible credit losses; changes in market
conditions, specifically declines in the commercial and residential real estate
market, volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and
soundness of other financial institutions we do business with; risks inherent in
making loans such as repayment risks and fluctuating collateral values; the
Company's investment securities portfolio is subject to credit risk, market
risk, and liquidity risk as well as changes in the estimates used to value the
securities in the portfolio; the effects of, and changes in, trade, monetary and
fiscal policies and laws, including interest rate policies of the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, inflation, interest rate, market and
monetary fluctuations; declines in the Company's common stock price or the
occurrence of what management would deem to be a triggering event that could,
under certain circumstances, cause us to record a noncash impairment charge to
earnings in future periods; the strength of the United States economy in general
and the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations;
geopolitical conditions, including acts or threats of terrorism, or actions
taken by the United States or other governments in response to acts or threats
of terrorism and/or military conflicts, which could impact business and economic
conditions in the United States and abroad; the occurrence of significant
natural disasters, including severe weather conditions, floods, health related
issues, and other catastrophic events; our management of risks inherent in our
real estate loan portfolio, and the risk of a prolonged downturn in the real
estate market, which could impair the value of our collateral and our ability to
sell collateral upon any foreclosure; changes in consumer spending and savings
habits; technological and social media changes; changing bank regulatory
conditions, policies or programs, whether arising as new legislation or
regulatory initiatives, that could lead to restrictions on activities of banks
generally, or our subsidiary bank in particular, more restrictive regulatory
capital requirements, increased costs, including deposit insurance premiums,
regulation or prohibition of certain income producing activities or changes in
the secondary market for loans and other products; the impact of changes in
financial services policies, laws and regulations, including laws, regulations
and policies concerning taxes, banking, securities and insurance, and the
application thereof by regulatory bodies; the impact of changes in laws,
regulations and policies affecting the real estate industry; the effect of
changes in accounting policies and practices, as may be adopted from time to
time by bank regulatory agencies, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
("SEC"), the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board or other accounting standards setting bodies; the timely
development of competitive new products and services and the acceptance of these
products and services by new and existing customers; the willingness of users to
substitute competitors' products and services for our products and services; the
effect of acquisitions we may make, including, without limitation, the failure
to achieve the expected revenue growth and/or expense savings from such
acquisitions; changes in the level of our nonperforming assets and charge-offs;
our involvement, from time to time, in legal proceedings and examination and
remedial actions by regulators; and potential exposure to fraud, negligence,
computer theft and cyber-crime. The foregoing factors should not be considered
exhaustive and should be read together with other cautionary statements that are
included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2022, including those discussed in the section entitled "Risk Factors," and
in the Company's other periodic and current reports filed with the SEC. If one
or more of the factors affecting our forward-looking information and statements
proves incorrect, then our actual results, performance or achievements could
differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, forward-looking
information and statements contained in this press release. Therefore, we
caution you not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking information and
statements. We will not update the forward-looking statements to reflect actual
results or changes in the factors affecting the forward-looking statements. New
risks and uncertainties may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for
us to predict their occurrence or how they will affect us.FVCBankcorp,
Inc.Selected Financial Data(Dollars in thousands, except per share
data)(Unaudited)At or For the Three Months EndedFor the Years Ended December
31,12/31/202312/31/202220232022Selected BalancesTotal
assets$2,190,558$2,344,322Total investment securities181,347293,945Total loans,
net of deferred fees1,828,5641,840,434Allowance for credit losses on
loans(18,871)(16,040)Total deposits1,845,2921,830,162Subordinated
debt19,62019,565Other borrowed funds85,000265,000Reserve for unfunded
commitments602- -Total stockholders' equity217,117202,382Summary Results of
OperationsInterest income$26,651$23,341$106,615$80,682Interest
expense13,9927,46252,21915,438Net interest
income12,65915,87954,39665,244Provision for credit losses- -7291322,629Net
interest income after provision for credit
losses12,65915,15054,26462,615Noninterest income - loan fees, service charges
and other4204211,8651,667Noninterest income - bank owned life
insurance3853561,4521,200Noninterest income (loss) - minority membership
interest321(787)(1,110)(33)Noninterest income - loss on sale of available-for-
sale investment securities(10,985)- -(15,577)- -Noninterest
expense9,4029,20236,66234,460Income (loss) before
taxes(6,602)5,9384,23230,989Income tax expense (benefit)(1,531)1,0354106,005Net
income (loss)(5,071)4,9033,82224,984Per Share DataNet income (loss), basic
(5)$(0.28)$0.28$0.22$1.43Net income (loss), diluted
(5)$(0.28)$0.27$0.21$1.35Book value (5)$12.19$11.58Tangible book value
(1)(5)$11.77$11.14Tangible book value, excluding accumulated other comprehensive
losses (1)(5)$13.12$13.23Shares outstanding17,806,99517,475,668Selected
RatiosNet interest margin (2)2.37%2.96%2.49%3.19%Return (loss) on average assets
(2)(0.92)%0.89%0.17%1.18%Return (loss) on average equity
(2)(9.51)%9.87%1.82%12.34%Efficiency (3)NM%57.99%89.36%50.62%Loans, net of
deferred fees to total deposits99.09%100.56%Noninterest-bearing deposits to
total deposits21.50%23.95%Reconciliation of Net Income (GAAP) to Commercial Bank
Operating Earnings (Non-GAAP)(4)GAAP net income reported
above$(5,071)$4,903$3,822$24,984Add: Loss on sale of available-for-sale
investment securities10,985- -15,577- -Add: Merger and acquisition expense- --
-- -125Add: Office space reduction and severance costs336- -457- -Subtract:
provision for income taxes associated with non-GAAP adjustments(2,490)-
-(3,527)(28)Net Income, core bank operating earnings (non-
GAAP)$3,760$4,903$16,329$25,081Earnings per share - basic (non-GAAP core bank
operating earnings)(5)$0.21$0.28$0.92$1.44Earnings per share - diluted (non-GAAP
core bank operating earnings)(5)$0.21$0.27$0.901.36Return on average assets
(non-GAAP core bank operating earnings)0.68%0.89%0.72%1.18%Return on average
equity (non-GAAP core bank operating earnings)7.06%9.87%7.78%12.39%Efficiency
ratio (non-GAAP core bank operating earnings) (3)65.77%57.99%63.96%50.43%Capital
Ratios - BankTangible common equity (to tangible assets)10.12%8.86%Total risk-
based capital (to risk weighted assets)13.83%13.28%Common equity tier 1 capital
(to risk weighted assets)12.80%12.45%Tier 1 leverage (to average
assets)10.77%10.75%Asset QualityNonperforming loans and loans 90+ past
due$1,829$4,493Nonperforming loans and loans 90+ past due to total
assets0.08%0.19%Nonperforming assets to total assets0.08%0.19%Allowance for
credit losses and unfunded commitments to loans1.06%0.87%Allowance for credit
losses to nonperforming loans1,064.70%357.00%Net charge-offs
(recoveries)$49$2$375$417Net charge-offs (recoveries) to average loans
(2)0.01%0.00%0.02%0.03%Selected Average BalancesTotal
assets$2,210,366$2,202,407$2,272,594$2,125,066Total earning
assets2,123,4552,126,0322,186,4672,044,618Total loans, net of deferred
fees1,825,4721,745,2261,848,3081,608,965Total
deposits1,836,8261,811,0981,915,0321,807,693Other DataNoninterest-bearing
deposits$396,724$438,269Interest-bearing checking, savings and money
market896,969883,480Time deposits306,349260,421Wholesale
deposits245,250247,992(1) Non-GAAP ReconciliationAt or For the Three Months
Ended,(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)12/31/202312/31/2022Total
stockholders' equity$217,117$202,382Less: goodwill and intangibles,
net(7,585)(7,790)Tangible Common Equity$209,532$194,592Less: Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income (Loss) ("AOCI")(24,160)(36,568)Tangible Common Equity
excluding AOCI$233,692$231,160Book value per common share (5)$12.19$11.58Less:
intangible book value per common share (5)(0.42)(0.44)Tangible book value per
common share (5)$11.77$11.14Add: AOCI (loss) per common share
(5)(1.35)(2.09)Tangible book value per common share, excluding AOCI
(5)$13.12$13.23(2) Annualized.(3) Efficiency ratio is calculated as noninterest
expense divided by the sum of net interest income and noninterest income.(4)
Some of the financial measures discussed throughout the press release are "non-
GAAP financial measures." In accordance with SEC rules, the Company classifies a
financial measure as being a non-GAAP financial measure if that financial
measure excludes or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the
effect of excluding or including amounts, that are included or excluded, as the
case may be, in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in
accordance with GAAP in our consolidated statements of income, balance sheets or
statements of cash flows.(5) Amounts above reflect the effect of a 25% stock
dividend declared on December 15, 2022 for shareholders of record on January 9,
2023, paid on January 31, 2023.FVCBankcorp, Inc.Summary Consolidated Statements
of Condition(Dollars in thousands)(Unaudited)% Change%
ChangeCurrentFrom12/31/20239/30/2023Quarter12/31/2022Year AgoCash and due from
banks$8,042$7,5606.4%$7,25310.9%Interest-bearing deposits atother financial
institutions52,48089,440-41.3%74,300-29.4%Investment
securities171,859216,410-20.6%278,333-38.3%Restricted stock, at
cost9,4887,74522.5%15,612-39.2%Loans, net of fees:Commercial real
estate1,091,6331,097,726-0.6%1,097,302-0.5%Commercial and
industrial216,367215,7640.3%214,8730.7%Commercial
construction147,998154,559-4.2%147,2720.5%Consumer real
estate363,317367,345-1.1%330,6359.9%Warehouse
facilities3,5067,887-55.6%42,699-91.8%Consumer
nonresidential5,7436,232-7.8%7,653-25.0%Total loans, net of
fees1,828,5641,849,513-1.1%1,840,434-0.6%Allowance for credit losses on
loans(18,871)(18,849)0.1%(16,040)17.6%Loans,
net1,809,6931,830,664-1.1%1,824,394-0.8%Premises and equipment,
net9971,047-4.8%1,220-18.3%Goodwill and intangibles,
net7,5857,632-0.6%7,790-2.6%Bank owned life insurance
(BOLI)56,82356,4380.7%55,3712.6%Other assets73,59188,536-16.9%80,049-8.1%Total
Assets$2,190,558$2,305,472-5.0%$2,344,322-6.6%Deposits:Noninterest-
bearing$396,724$427,036-7.1%$438,269-9.5%Interest
checking576,471651,064-11.5%578,340-0.3%Savings and money
market320,498253,57526.4%305,1405.0%Time
deposits306,349381,770-19.8%260,42117.6%Wholesale
deposits245,250282,526-13.2%247,992-1.1%Total
deposits1,845,2921,995,971-7.5%1,830,1620.8%Other borrowed
funds85,00050,00070.0%265,000-67.9%Subordinated notes, net ofissuance
costs19,62019,6060.1%19,5650.3%Reserve for unfunded commitments602673-10.5%-
-100.0%Other liabilities22,92727,976-18.0%27,213-15.7%Stockholders'
equity217,117211,2462.8%202,3827.3%Total Liabilities & Stockholders'
Equity$2,190,558$2,305,472-5.0%$2,344,322-6.6%FVCBankcorp, Inc.Summary
Consolidated Statements of Operations(Dollars in thousands, except per share
data)(Unaudited)For the Three Months Ended% Change%
ChangeCurrentFrom12/31/20239/30/2023Quarter12/31/2022Year AgoNet interest
income$12,659$13,335-5.1%$15,879-20.3%Provision for (reversal of) credit
losses-(729)100.0%729-100.0%Net interest income after provision for (reversal
of) credit losses12,65914,064-10.0%15,150-16.4%Noninterest income (loss):Fees on
loans35107-66.8%74-52.2%Service charges on deposit
accounts2962844.3%24819.5%BOLI income3853733.2%3568.0%Income (Loss) from
minority membership interest321(650)-149.4%(787)-140.8%Loss on sale of
available-for-sale investment securities(10,985)- -100.0%- -0.0%Other fee
income89111-19.9%99-10.0%Total noninterest income
(loss)(9,859)225-4,485.7%(10)98,489.3%Noninterest expense:Salaries and employee
benefits5,2695,2670.0%5,2230.9%Occupancy expense5725474.6%620-7.7%Internet
banking and software expense7016606.3%47547.6%Data processing and network
administration6346015.6%6153.2%State franchise
taxes5845840.0%50914.8%Professional fees2132130.4%325-34.3%Office space
reduction costs273-100.0%-100.0%Other operating
expense1,1561,176-1.9%1,435-19.6%Total noninterest
expense9,4029,0483.9%9,2022.2%Net income (loss) before income
taxes(6,602)5,241-226.0%5,938-211.2%Income tax expense
(benefit)(1,531)1,202-227.4%1,035-247.9%Net income
(loss)$(5,071)$4,039-225.5%$4,903-203.4%Earnings (loss) per share - basic
(1)$(0.28)$0.23-225.5%$0.28-201.6%Earnings (loss) per share - diluted
(1)$(0.28)$0.22-225.4%$0.27-204.5%Weighted-average common shares outstanding -
basic (1)17,802,81017,800,10817,485,715Weighted-average common shares
outstanding - diluted (1)18,295,89418,274,43218,489,595Reconciliation of Net
Income (GAAP) to Commercial Bank Operating Earnings (Non-GAAP):GAAP net income
reported above$(5,071)$4,039$4,903Add: Loss on sale of available-for-sale
investment securities10,985- -- -Add: Office space reduction and severance
costs336- -- -Subtract: provision for income taxes associated with non-GAAP
adjustments(2,490)- -- -Net Income, Operating earnings (non-
GAAP)$3,760$4,039$4,903Earnings per share - basic (non-GAAP core bank operating
earnings)(1)$0.21$0.23$0.28Earnings per share - diluted (non-GAAP core bank
operating earnings)(1)$0.21$0.22$0.27Return on average assets (non-GAAP core
bank operating earnings)0.68%0.70%0.89%Return on average equity (non-GAAP core
bank operating earnings)7.06%7.57%9.87%Efficiency ratio (non-GAAP core bank
operating earnings)65.77%66.73%57.99%Reconciliation of Net Income (GAAP) to Pre-
Tax Pre-Provision Operating Income (Non-GAAP):GAAP net income reported
above$(5,071)$4,039$4,903Add: Provision for credit losses- -(729)729Add: Loss on
sale of investment securities10,985- -- -Add: Office space reduction and
severance costs336(Subtract) Add: Income tax (benefit)
expense(1,531)1,2021,035Pre-tax pre-provision operating
income$4,719$4,512$6,667Earnings per share - basic (non-GAAP pre-tax pre-
provision)(1)$0.27$0.25$0.38Earnings per share - diluted (non-GAAP pre-tax pre-
provision)(1)$0.26$0.25$0.36Return on average assets (non-GAAP pre-tax pre-
provision)0.85%0.78%1.21%Return on average equity (non-GAAP pre-tax pre-
provision)8.85%8.45%13.42%(1) Amounts above reflect the effect of a 25% stock
dividend declared on December 15, 2022 for shareholders of record on January 9,
2023, paid on January 31, 2023.FVCBankcorp, Inc.Summary Consolidated Income
Statements(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)(Unaudited)For the Years
Ended% ChangeFrom12/31/202312/31/2022Year AgoNet interest
income$54,396$65,244-16.6%Provision for credit losses1322,629-95.0%Net interest
income after provision for loan losses54,26462,615-13.3%Noninterest income
(loss):Fees on loans38823267.2%Service charges on deposit
accounts1,0289547.7%BOLI income1,4521,20021.0%Loss from minority membership
interest(1,110)(33)3,262.4%Loss on sale of available-for-sale investment
securities(15,577)- -100.0%Other fee income449481-6.6%Total noninterest income
(loss)(13,370)2,834-571.7%Noninterest expense:Salaries and employee
benefits20,64320,3161.6%Occupancy expense2,3572,1907.6%Internet banking and
software expense2,5051,70746.8%Data processing and network
administration2,4682,3037.2%State franchise taxes2,3382,03614.8%Professional
fees8581,210-29.1%Merger and acquisition expense- -125-100.0%Office space
reduction costs273- -100.0%Other operating expense5,2204,57314.2%Total
noninterest expense36,66234,4606.4%Net income before income
taxes4,23230,989-86.3%Income tax expense4106,005-93.2%Net
Income$3,822$24,984-84.7%Earnings per share - basic$0.22$1.43-85.0%Earnings per
share - diluted$0.21$1.35-84.5%Weighted-average common shares outstanding -
basic17,722,77817,431,098Weighted-average common shares outstanding -
diluted18,231,34618,483,577Reconciliation of Net Income (GAAP) to Commercial
Bank Operating Earnings (Non-GAAP):GAAP net income reported
above$3,822$24,984Add: Loss on sale of available-for-sale investment
securities15,577- -Add: Merger and acquisition expense- -125Add: Office space
reduction and severance costs457- -Subtract: provision for income taxes
associated with non-GAAP adjustments(3,527)(28)Net Income, Operating earnings
(non-GAAP)$16,329$25,081Earnings per share - basic (non-GAAP core bank operating
earnings)(1)$0.92$1.44Earnings per share - diluted (non-GAAP core bank operating
earnings)(1)$0.90$1.36Return on average assets (non-GAAP core bank operating
earnings)0.72%1.18%Return on average equity (non-GAAP core bank operating
earnings)7.78%12.39%Efficiency ratio (non-GAAP core bank operating
earnings)63.96%50.43%Reconciliation of Net Income (GAAP) to Pre-Tax Pre-
Provision Operating Income (Non-GAAP):GAAP net income reported
above$3,822$24,984Add: Provision for credit losses1322,629Add: Loss on sale of
investment securities15,577- -Add: Merger and acquisition expense- -125Add:
Office space reduction and severance costs457- -Add: Income tax
expense4106,005Pre-tax pre-provision operating income$20,398$33,743Earnings per
share - basic (non-GAAP pre-tax pre-provision)(1)$1.15$1.94Earnings per share -
diluted (non-GAAP pre-tax pre-provision)(1)$1.12$1.83Return on average assets
(non-GAAP operating earnings)0.90%1.59%Return on average equity (non-GAAP
operating earnings)9.72%16.66%(1) Amounts above reflect the effect of a 25%
stock dividend declared on December 15, 2022 for shareholders of record on
January 9, 2023, paid on January 31, 2023.FVCBankcorp, Inc.Average Statements of
Condition and Yields on Earning Assets and Interest-Bearing Liabilities(Dollars
in thousands)(Unaudited)For the Three Months Ended12/31/20239/30/202312/31/2022A
verageInterestAverageAverageInterestAverageAverageInterestAverageBalanceIncome/E
xpenseYieldBalanceIncome/ExpenseYieldBalanceIncome/ExpenseYieldInterest-earning
assets:Loans receivable, net of fees (1)Commercial real estate$1,089,549$13,5494
.97%$1,106,429$13,5864.91%$1,056,611$11,7914.46%Commercial and
industrial206,3503,9167.59%218,8154,0717.44%189,2773,1166.59%Commercial
construction154,0492,6846.97%154,5692,7807.19%149,0802,3826.39%Consumer real
estate365,5824,3914.80%363,7134,3594.79%314,4153,5134.47%Warehouse
facilities3,903788.00%19,9443316.65%27,3804456.51%Consumer
nonresidential6,0391308.62%5,3491168.67%8,4631838.66%Total
loans1,825,47224,7485.42%1,868,81925,2435.40%1,745,22621,4304.91%Investment
securities (2)(3)252,9581,2852.03%281,3821,3091.86%344,0111,6451.91%Interest-
bearing deposits atother financial
institutions45,0256195.45%64,7228765.37%36,7952692.90%Total interest-earning
assets2,123,45526,6525.02%2,214,92327,4284.95%2,126,03223,3444.39%Non-interest
earning assets:Cash and due from banks6,1956,721807Premises and equipment,
net1,0411,0831,284Accrued interest and other assets98,50999,57689,616Allowance
for credit losses on loans(18,834)(19,432)(15,332)Total
Assets$2,210,366$2,302,870$2,202,407Interest-bearing liabilities:Interest
checking$631,775$5,3083.33%$641,746$5,1343.17%$670,540$2,6341.56%Savings and
money market310,1991,7152.82%240,5041,5442.55%303,1371,1501.51%Time
deposits272,7843,5794.15%359,2173,5503.92%238,7951,2672.11%Wholesale
deposits218,1762,1513.91%366,6673,5713.86%133,0927982.38%Total interest-bearing
deposits1,432,93412,7533.53%1,608,13413,7993.40%1,345,5645,8491.72%Other
borrowed funds112,9359823.45%9,141351.53%145,4241,3563.70%Subordinated notes,
net of issuance costs19,6112575.21%19,5972585.21%19,5562575.23%Total interest-
bearing liabilities1,565,48013,9923.55%1,636,87214,0923.42%1,510,5447,4621.96%No
ninterest-bearing liabilities:Noninterest-bearing
deposits403,892425,807465,534Other liabilities27,80426,68127,635Stockholders'
equity213,190213,510198,694Total Liabilities and Stockholders'
Equity$2,210,366$2,302,870$2,202,407Net Interest
Margin12,6602.37%13,3362.39%15,8822.96%(1) Non-accrual loans are included in
average balances.(2) The average yields for investment securities are reported
on a fully taxable-equivalent basis at a rate of 22% for the three months ended
December 31, 2023 and September 30, 2023 and 21% for the three months ended for
the December 31, 2022. The taxable equivalent adjustment to interest income was
$1 for the three months ended December 31, 2023 and September 30, 2023. For the
three months ended December 31, 2022, the taxable equivalent adjustment to
interest income was $2 for each aforementioned period.(3) The average balances
for investment securities includes restricted stock.FVCBankcorp, Inc.Average
Statements of Condition and Yields on Earning Assets and Interest-Bearing
Liabilities(Dollars in thousands)(Unaudited)For the Years Ended20232022AverageIn
terestAverageAverageInterestAverageBalanceIncome/ExpenseYieldBalanceIncome/Expen
seYieldInterest-earning assets:Loans receivable, net of fees (1)Commercial real
estate$1,103,325$53,3564.84%$978,983$42,6464.36%Commercial and
industrial206,43215,1707.35%181,5409,8205.41%Commercial
construction154,65810,9177.06%165,0888,7625.31%Consumer real
estate358,74017,0394.75%240,05510,0794.20%Warehouse
facilities19,0971,3437.03%43,2681,6123.73%Consumer
nonresidential6,0565489.05%9,1437057.71%Total
loans1,848,30898,3735.32%1,618,07773,6244.55%Investment securities
(2)(3)287,4545,6061.95%352,0646,3821.81%Interest-bearing deposits atother
financial institutions50,7052,6415.21%74,4776850.92%Total interest-earning
assets2,186,467106,6204.88%2,044,61880,6913.95%Non-interest earning assets:Cash
and due from banks6,168873Premises and equipment, net1,1211,410Accrued interest
and other assets97,44092,761Allowance for credit losses on
loans(18,602)(14,596)Total Assets$2,272,594$2,125,066Interest-bearing
liabilities:Interest checking$581,655$16,9032.91%$724,881$5,9660.82%Savings and
money market254,7216,1022.40%315,6532,6620.84%Time
deposits349,27012,7913.66%203,7192,9081.43%Wholesale
deposits303,47211,5493.81%61,4789321.52%Total interest-bearing
deposits1,489,11847,3453.18%1,305,73112,4680.95%Other borrowed
funds102,0503,8443.77%70,2991,9392.76%Subordinated notes, net of issuance
costs19,5901,0305.26%19,5351,0315.28%Total interest-bearing
liabilities1,610,75852,2193.24%1,395,56515,4381.11%Noninterest-bearing
liabilities:Noninterest-bearing deposits425,914501,962Other
liabilities26,01325,059Stockholders' equity209,909202,480Total Liabilities and
Stockholders' Equity$2,272,594$2,125,066Net Interest
Margin54,4012.49%65,2533.19%(1) Non-accrual loans are included in average
balances.(2) The average yields for investment securities are reported on a
fully taxable-equivalent basis at a rate of 22% for the year ended December 31,
2023 and 21% for the year ended December 31, 2022. The taxable equivalent
adjustment to interest income was $5 and $9 for years ended December 31, 2023
and 2022, respectively.(3) The average balances for investment securities
includes restricted stock.View source version on businesswire.com:
https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20240123315769/en/CONTACT: David W.
Pijor, Esq., Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerPhone: (703) 436-3802Email:
dpijor@fvcbank.com Patricia A. Ferrick, PresidentPhone: (703) 436-3822Email: pfe
rrick@fvcbank.comBWIRE-20240123315769BWIRE2024urn:contentItem:6B5K-8G31-JBG1-
8007-00000-0079242024-01-239:00 PM GMTCopyright 2024 Business Wire, Inc.Business
Wirehttp://www.businesswire.comJanuary 23, 2024 TuesdayNewswireNewswires & Press
ReleasesENGLISHVA-FVCBANKCORP-INCUnited StatesProfessional
ServicesTechnologySmall BusinessFinanceBankingDigital Cash Management/Digital
AssetsNorth AmericaDistrict of ColumbiaVirginiaEarningsFVCB(NASDAQ)Banking LawZ3
VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6QjQyMUFCOUJBNURBNEFDREE3MTNCNDk5QkQ4NUM3RjI7cGFyZW50Z3VpZD0Res
erve RequirementsZ3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6RTdCOUFDQ0Q5RDEwNDE4QTgxQTY3REYxMUU2MDJEMDk
7cGFyZW50Z3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6RUMwQTBCNEI1REYxNDExMDgzQzVBNTc4NzgwN0YzQzgUS
Federal Reserve SystemZ3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6RUMwQTBCNEI1REYxNDExMDgzQzVBNTc4NzgwN0
YzQzg7cGFyZW50Z3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6MTEzMzQzODVBMzEzNDczMEE1ODM5N0REMTc3QzFDMkIAff
iliates & SubsidiariesZ3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6NkI5RDkyRjdFMDZBNEM0OEI3NDgyMzI3Q0JGMD
MzNDA7cGFyZW50Z3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6MTc0NTk4NzUxNDUwNDU3QjhFNEEyMzJENjFEMzY0MjUAcc
rual of Interest & Interest RatesZ3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6NTc4RDQyMTYwNTVFNEJDQ0ExQTM
xMzAzNDhFNEI3NjY7cGFyZW50Z3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6RERDRkQwNUM4ODA4NERGRUFEMTM3RjQ0MUZ
DRjM5N0QUS Federal Home Loan Bank SystemZ3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6NjBDRkE2QTYxNzM0NEQ3
Mzg0QkM1QTdDNDgwMzEzQjY7cGFyZW50Z3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6MTEzMzQzODVBMzEzNDczMEE1ODM5
N0REMTc3QzFDMkIBoard of GovernorsZ3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6RDgyNUZERUIxM0RGNDE0RkFCQ0F
BNTYzRUI3MzYzREY7cGFyZW50Z3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6RUMwQTBCNEI1REYxNDExMDgzQzVBNTc4Nzg
wN0YzQzgBusiness & Corporate ComplianceZ3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6MUFEMUQ2QTA1OUZCNEE5R
jkzNTA2RERFMUNEOTk1RTI7cGFyZW50Z3VpZD0US Federal Reserve SystemZ3VpZD11cm46dG9wa
WM6RUMwQTBCNEI1REYxNDExMDgzQzVBNTc4NzgwN0YzQzg7cGFyZW50Z3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6MTEzM
zQzODVBMzEzNDczMEE1ODM5N0REMTc3QzFDMkIUS Federal Home Loan Bank SystemZ3VpZD11cm
46dG9waWM6NjBDRkE2QTYxNzM0NEQ3Mzg0QkM1QTdDNDgwMzEzQjY7cGFyZW50Z3VpZD11cm46dG9waW
M6MTEzMzQzODVBMzEzNDczMEE1ODM5N0REMTc3QzFDMkIReal Property LawZ3VpZD11cm46dG9waW
M6QUUyRTcxRURBNEY2NEE2MDk3QzBCNzRDOEY0NTZDQzk7cGFyZW50Z3VpZD0Construction LoansZ
3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6RDNGMDlENjQ4NUYyNEM0MEIxRTAwMjAyRTdFRUNBRkY7cGFyZW50Z3VpZD11c
m46dG9waWM6MTY1MzRERDhBMDZCNDFBMDk0QUEwRjcyN0ZFNEY3REMSecurities LawZ3VpZD11cm46
dG9waWM6RkFFMTQ3ODhCRDYyNDkyN0IwQkEyQzRCRDlFMEM5ODc7cGFyZW50Z3VpZD0Forward
Looking StatementsZ3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6RjY2REJEQzUxRDdDNEZGOThGODUyOUJDOTU5QTMzQ0
Q7cGFyZW50Z3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6RjQ2MjQyMDdBOEZDNDlCOTlCRjVBM0UwQzE2QUVCRTIStateme
nts of OpinionZ3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6QzY5NDE2NEUwRTkyNENGREFBNUFENzg0M0I5MDIwODM7cG
FyZW50Z3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6RTZDNzJEMzA1ODM4NEM1Mzg0Rjg4ODY5RDIwRTk0NjAGeneral Ove
rviewZ3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6RDU1MTY4RTk5RDk1NDEyOEI4REI2RDRDN0U2RkYzMjI7cGFyZW50Z3V
pZD11cm46dG9waWM6NTIzM0Q2QzExM0U3NDZGOEEwM0YyQ0Q1RjA2Njg5OTQPrivate Securities
Litigation Reform ActZ3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6NUZEQTg1RTdFRUI2NDU0RDkxQkYzNUNERDNCNzA
0QzE7cGFyZW50Z3VpZD11cm46dG9waWM6NTIzM0Q2QzExM0U3NDZGOEEwM0YyQ0Q1RjA2Njg5OTQSTX0
00340COMPANY EARNINGSSTX001943FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE & REPORTSSTX000718FINANCIAL
RESULTSSTX001372PRESS RELEASESSTX000542ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTSSTX000545EARNINGS
PER SHAREST0009QD4NEGATIVE BUSINESS NEWSSTX001976SECURITIES & OTHER
INVESTMENTSSTX000341COMPANY LOSSESSTX001976SECURITIES & OTHER
INVESTMENTSN523110ECINVESTMENT BANKINGST000DN7WNON-PERFORMING
LOANSGS162VIRGINIA, USAGS124WASHINGTON DC, USAGR120NORTH AMERICAGC343UNITED
STATES